In a bounded two-dimensional space, each Voronoi set creates a polygon[^poly]. The number of sides, the area and the perimeter of the polygon are measures that can be used to characterise the Voronoi set (Okabe, et. al. 2009). In terms of firm location these three measures would be the number of direct competitors, the market size, and length of the market boundaries. _[The latter is a proxy for the surface tension/energy of the market. The points on the market boundary exhibits higher energy than interior points.]_ The properties of the polygon provide descriptive statistics on each firm. However they contain less information on the intrinsic interaction between firms that is an integral part of competition. The network formed by *Delaunay tessellation* provides insights on interaction. The number of direct competitors can also be obtained from the network by counting the number of links emanating from a firm. But more importantly the links tell which specific firms are in direct competition with one-another, and in a dynamic setting they tell how the competitive setting changes over time. As earlier noted, Eaton and Lipsey (1975) find that the hexagonal, square and rectangular pattern break up because firms on the perimeter will pair up with neighbours. The *Delaunay tessellation* provides an easy method to analyse such behaviour and a method to generalise the findings. _[The *Delaunay tessellation* seem to be under-explored in the contemporary literature on competitive location of firms.]_

[^poly]: Strictly speaking, the Voronoi set is only a polygon for certain distance metrics. Only distance metrics where the boundaries of Voronoi sets are line segments will lead to polygons. Commonly used distance metrics -- such as *Manhattan*, *Euclidean* and *Chebyshev* -- all fulfil this requirement (Eiselt and Marianov, 2011, chapter 19).