In the field of economics, competition is often synonymous with price competition. However businesses compete with one another on a multitude of other factors. Retailers compete for customers when they choose their location. Manufacturers compete when they choose product characteristics such as size, colour, shape, style, flavour, etc. 

The range of available products is a response to the diversity of consumer preferences. Specific products and specific locations are selected to appeal to different segments of the market. Consumers have idiosyncratic preferences over their preferred variant. Some prefer a sweeter cider to a more sour cider, and vice versa. Similarly consumers favour shops located in their respective neighbourhood over shops located in other neighbourhoods. This inherent heterogeneity among individuals creates a collective demand for product diversity and a demand across all neighbourhoods. Consequently consumers are willing to pay more for variants that better mirror their preferences. These premiums open up for the possibility that firms maintain a price level above marginal costs and are thus a source of market power.

The market is unlikely to sustain a large number of products or retailers -- even with board diversity in consumer preferences -- because of increasing returns to scale in production, distribution, R&D, etc. Each firm must capture a sufficiently large share of the market to cover its fixed costs. This in turn creates a natural barrier that prohibits each individual consumer from simply producing his or her preferred product. Instead the market will consist of few firms that compete with one another for customers. With few firms in the market it is hard to defend the assumption of *competitive price-taking* firms, or similar assumptions that treat firms as identical passive entities. Instead competition and interaction among firms is strategic. 
When a profit-maximising firm evaluates different actions -- such as its location or product characteristics -- it should take account of the potential demand associated with each action. The firm plays an active role in shaping its outcome and can appeal to different segments through its choices. Additionally firms with foresight should consider the action and response from competing firms. If all competitors are contemplating opening a shop on Main Street, then the retailer might secure a larger profit by instead locating off Main Street despite the lower concentration of consumers there. It is not enough that the action of the firms is profitable given the current state. The firms compete for the same consumers, therefore the long-term profitability is contingent on the firm's ability to predict the future action of competing firms and respond accordingly. This may include, but is not limited to, finding a niche segment of the market that is sufficiently large to sustain the firm, or engaging in direct competition while maintaining the flexibility to adjust to changes.

The natural setting when considering competitive location or competitive product differentiation is a market with few firms where firms act strategically and with foresight. The choice of each firm reflects the diversity of consumer preferences and so the aggregated distribution of consumer preferences is likely to be of great importance. Moreover the aggregated distribution of each consumer's preferred product or location does not necessarily follow a convenient uniform, symmetric or even unimodal distribution. The distribution may well be asymmetric and multi-modal.

This type of competition has received fare less attention than price competition, and consequently many important questions have yet to be answered. Most notably what happens when multiple firms compete in a multidimensional space. For instance several retailers locating in a two-dimensional geographic space, or multiple cider producers considering product differentiation along several dimensions such as sweet-sour, sparkling-still, clear-cloudy etc. Every day business owners make decisions in settings such as these. And yet the literature on economics lack a solid theoretical understanding of how firms make these decisions and how it affects the overall market. It light of this it seems evident that product differentiation is a crucial piece missing in our understanding of how modern market economies operate.

This paper will be purely theoretical. It does not aim to provide business owners with best practices on how to locate nor how to differentiate itself from competitors. The aim is to understand the decision process of firms. This requires developing a theoretical model capable of analysing the decisions, yet versatile enough to handle the settings firms often find themselves competing in (i.e. few firms acting strategic with foresight in a market not necessarily restricted to a single dimension and where the distribution of consumer preferences might be asymmetric and multi-modal). The development of a theoretical model opens the future field of study to more practical applications and analyses. One such analysis might concern the above mentioned market power that arises from consumers' willingness to pay a premium for product variants that better reflect their preferences. If this severely distorts the market antitrust and competition laws should take account of it. Another analysis might concern the additional source of market failure that can arise from the selection process. When firms compete through their choice of product characteristics or location, it may lead to an under- or over-supply, but unique to models with endogenous product selection is the possibility that competition leads to the wrong products or locations. For instance competition among retailers may lead all retailers to locate in the city centre, even if the socially optimal locations is one where retailers are evenly dispersed across the neighbourhoods of the city. If this is the case, the government or local zoning laws should adjust incentives so firms choose efficient locations and the efficient set of products from the spectrum of possible variants.
  
Models studying this type of competition are collectively known as *competitive location models*. The first was Hotelling’s (1929) line market, where two firms compete for consumers that are evenly distributed along one dimension. The model has been extended in numerous ways, such as the number of firms, the distribution of consumers, and the number of dimensions. The traditional approach has been to solve for the equilibria of the model analytically. The conclusions then follow from analysing these equilibrium settings. Judging by the limited number of new insights discovered the last 15 years, suggests that this approach might be reaching its limits. Biscaia and Mota (2013, p. 869) write that *“it would seem that most of the important features that justify the spatial behaviour of firms have already been explored”*. In addition it has been proven that some location models -- despite being fairly simple in their setup -- belong to a set of problems suspected to be infeasible to solve. An alternative approach to these types of models, recently advanced in the political science literature, rely on agent-based modelling. The location problem is set up as a computer model in which the agents act simultaneously and according to a given set of decision rules. The model is analysed by running the simulation and observing how the interaction of agents play out. The agent-based model allows researchers to study settings that are beyond the reach of the analytical approach. In the current models agents act using simple rules of thumb or heuristics without any type of foresight. That is, each agent is oblivious to the future behaviour of the other agents and does not take their behaviour into account when deciding its own location. The agent-based models developed so far lack the strategic considerations fundamental to earlier competitive location models.

This paper uses the agent-based model laid out by Laver and Sergeant (2011). We construct a new decision rule with foresight. With this rule the firm forecasts the future location of competing firms and uses the predicted locations when it decides where to locate. The forecast method used in this paper is a modified version of the one advanced by the *Santa Fe Artificial Stock Market* model (Arthur 2014, chapter 11). With this method firms use *inductive reasoning*, i.e. they hold several hypotheses on how a competing firm chooses to locate and use the most accurate hypothesis that fits the current state to predict the future location. The firm gradually discard poorly performing hypotheses and form new hypotheses. The model is dynamic and firms act simultaneously. The results of the model follow from observing how the interaction of firms play out.

In this paper we disregard price competition and focuses solely on the type of competition that takes place through product differentiation or location differentiation. While disregarding price competition leaves much to be desired in terms of developing a unified and fundamental theoretical model, it reduces the complexity of the model significantly. We leave it up to future research to appropriately incorporate price competition and determine its effect on the results. In the models we assume that all firms charge the same fixed price. A situation like this might arise because of government regulation, or if firms previously committed themselves to a fixed price. The situation may also arise if firms are subject to a *retail price maintenance* agreement, where prices are fixed earlier in the distribution channel, e.g. by manufacturers or wholesalers. To make the paper easier to read and for the sake of consistency the models are formulated in terms of geographic location. However the results also apply to product differentiation and in the context of political parties competing for voters through their choice of policy positions.  

_[summarise results ... it is a colossal task. The paper does not  provide answers to all questions. But it is a first step in developing a model where foresight and strategic considerations are integral to the decision process ... ]_

The paper is structured as follows. The literature review covers previous results from competitive location models such as Hotelling’s line market, its extensions, and the agent-based model. This section also covers research on related concepts that are used in later sections, such as Voronoi diagrams, distance metrics and implementation of learning in economic models. The final model is quite complex. To aid the reader the paper gradually introduces decision rules and adds layers to the model, starting with the most simple. The model and basic decision rules without foresight are introduced in the methodology sections. The section discusses the approach used to solve the model and estimate the output values of the model. In addition the section presents methods on how to parameterise the model and determine when the model has *burnt in*, such that the results obtained are independent of the initial position of firms. The analysis section presents the results of the models where firms make decisions without foresight, followed by a detailed introduction of the decision rule where firms use *inductive reasoning*, and finally the results from this decision rule. The final section concludes the paper.