# Purpose:

Reintroducing strategic considerations into the competitive location behaviour of firms. 

Monopoly, duopoly and *perfect competition* are undoubtedly the most studied market settings in the literature. Nonetheless most markets lay somewhere in-between the extreme case of 1-2 firms and the other extreme case of infinitely many firms. In addition the markets between the two extremes give rise to new and interesting phenomenas _that cannot be analysed under assumptions such as *monopolistic competition*_. Phenomenas such as niche markets, clustering of firms and [...].

Does a firm set out to occupy a niche market, or is it the output of a competitive process among several firms that drive the firm into a niche market? When is it a competitive advantage to occupy a niche market, rather than engage in direct and fierce competition with other firms? Why do firms tend to cluster or agglomerate in some markets, while they are dispersed in other?

Competitive location models investigates how firms choose to locate in a market with competing firms. The strategic aspects were the bedrock of the first competitive location models. Expanding the competitive location model to include more firms or multiple dimensions has proven difficult. Previous attempts to solve these models have used decision rules that rely on heuristics or rules of thumb. This simplifies the problem. And the rules provide a good first approximation. But these rules disregard any strategic considerations in the decision process of firms. The implicit assumption when a firm has to choose its position is that all competing firms will maintain their current position. In addition to being unrealistic this assumption heavily influences the results and conclusions of the location model. This paper is a first attempt at reintroducing strategic considerations back into the competitive location model with two dimensions and multiple firms.